---
title: Fresh Year of Gardening
date: 2021-01-07T14:54:39.618Z
draft: false
---

Welcome to a fresh new year of gardening …

After such a stressful 2020, it’s good to welcome in the New Year with a fresh look at gardens and gardening. Let’s hope we can all recover a degree of normality and continue to enjoy the inspiration and enjoyment that plants and wildlife can bring. 

I feel a good tip now would be to plan ahead. With the uncertainties of Covid, Brexit and subsequent possible stock fluctuations, maybe start to stock up now on any seeds, seed potatoes and compost that you may need. These were the products that were in demand before the first lockdown in March, and they could be in shorter supply this year. 

In the garden, best to leave ponds alone at present, and try to avoid regular walking across soggy or frosted grass. Keep feeding birds as their natural sources of berries will be depleted by now. Look out for early bulbs that will be appearing soon, and always be ready with fleece for your more tender plants when there is a prolonged cold weather warning. 

As it’s January, with it’s limited possibilities outside, take a look at adding more houseplants to your indoor collection. Exotic phalaenopsis orchids are easier to keep than many people realise. The buds and subsequent flowers can last for months, and stems will swiftly regrow new shoots. Minimal watering is required. Monstera (Swiss Cheese plants) have made a comeback recently: in the 1970s and 1980s no lounge or study bedroom was complete without one! Ferns will usually flourish in bathrooms as the humidity will provide ideal growing conditions. 

As with outside shrubs and plants, houseplants will need little feed and watering between now and March, when you can then re-pot any which need a boost. 

David Hogg

Buckland Nurseries 

