---
title: March Garden Notes
date: 2021-03-01T14:54:39.618Z
draft: true
---

The cold blast in February was quite a shock for gardens.  After a wet winter, plants have now had to endure frozen conditions for over a week. Sadly, this will have caused damage, and often in unexpected ways. Roots that have been frozen, especially in unprotected pots, will prevent moisture from spreading through plants. This can effect evergreens in particular. If we have a dry spring  water well to revive; in any event top dress with a granular feed such as Vitax Q4 or fish, blood and bone. 

Nature is quick to recover.  Warmer weather will now kick-start the usual spring revival. It seems that no sooner are leaves falling in the autumn, that we witness new buds forming new foliage.  Be aware of cold snaps which can still occur into April – fleece at the ready !

Here are a few more seasonal tips: 

- It’s time now to plant early seed potatoes in the ground or in pots. Also garlic, onion sets and shallots should go into the ground. Seeds can be sown under protection, either on a windowsill or in a greenhouse.  Children will be thrilled to watch seedlings grow, and can follow their progress when they are planted on. Remember to harden young plants off by gradually acclimatizing them to conditions outside. 
- Cut back ornamental grasses, as hard and as far as you like. Most will have given a good display through the winter, but new growth will be fresher and bolder.  
- Prune roses according to type.
- Start feeding fish
- Put supports or obelisks in place for climbing plants and grow-through supports for tall and unruly perennials. 
- Supplies of certain products may run short at garden centres this year. Best to think ahead and buy early if you can. 

David Hogg

Buckland Nurseries 





