---
title: Ideas for the new season
date: 2022-03-14T14:54:39.618Z
draft: false
---
Already the signs of spring are here. Bulbs are blooming, buds are forming and welcoming spells of sunny days and warm weather are here again. 

Here are a few pointers to kick-start the season: 
- Summer bulbs and tubers are available for planting now. The array of colours from dahlia will never disappoint, with tempting varieties such as Karma Choc, Cheyenne Chieftain, Purple Explosion and Hollyhill Lemon Ice giving alternatives to the more traditional (but still excellent) varieties such as Bishop of Llandaff. Summer-flowering lilies are always show-stoppers, with their metre-long stems topped with bold and fragrant  trumpet-shaped flowers. Make Pink Perfection, Touchstone and Debby strong contenders for your pots ! 
- Seed potatoes should be chitted now ready for planting soon. Even if you have little space, many can be grown very successfully in large bags or containers. 
- If you have a few square metres spare in a sunny spot, consider sowing seeds later in the month to encourage wildlife. There are different mixes which will encourage bees, birds and beneficial insects, or will simply give a cottage garden look. 
- Lawns will soon be vigorously growing again. Sowing lawn seed now (during a mild period) will not only thicken up the grass, but will deter the spread of moss which is often so prevalent in the spring. Raking up any excess first will help, and adding sandy lawn dressing or topsoil will improve germination. 
- There are a host of flower and vegetable seeds which can be sown from March onwards.  Take your pick from a selection of sweet peas, cosmos, sunflowers and mixed annuals. As for vegetables,  carrots, leeks, herbs and lettuce can all be grown in succession from now on. 

Let’s hope we can avoid a late cold snap! 

David Hogg

Buckland Nurseries
